+----------------------------------+------------------------+----------+
| ![](vertopal_                    |                        |          |
| 994815ed689f4b22ac1385d5542332e5 |                        |          |
| /media/image1.png){width="2.4in" |                        |          |
| height="0.5881944444444445in"}   |                        |          |
|                                  |                        |          |
| SCHOOL OF INFORMATION AND        |                        |          |
| TECHNOLOGY                       |                        |          |
+----------------------------------+------------------------+----------+
| NAME: Sueno, Johnray K.          | DATE PERFORMED:        | Â         |
|                                  | 11/05/2024             |          |
+----------------------------------+------------------------+----------+
| Section: IDC2                    | DATE SUBMITTED:        |          |
|                                  | 11/05/2024             |          |
+----------------------------------+------------------------+----------+

# SYSADM1 -- Acceptable Use Policy

1.  Revisit the policy you drafted for TechLease

2.  Based on comments, edit the Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) that aligns
    with the company\'s profile and addresses its unique requirements by
    providing details to the following sections.

+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| **Acceptable Use    | 1.  Purpose and Scope (Explain the intent of   |
| Policy (AUP)**      |     the policy, emphasizing that the policy    |
|                     |     supports TechLease's mission to provide    |
|                     |     accessible, reliable technology for        |
|                     |     students and educators.)                   |
|                     |                                                |
|                     |     Specify who this policy applies to (all    |
|                     |     TechLease users, including students and    |
|                     |     teaching staff renting devices and         |
|                     |     accessories).                              |
+=====================+================================================+
|                     | 2.  General Usage Guidelines                   |
|                     |                                                |
|                     | ```{=html}                                     |
|                     | <!-- -->                                       |
|                     | ```                                            |
|                     | 1.  Permitted Uses                             |
|                     |                                                |
|                     | 2.  Prohibited Uses                            |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+
|                     | 3.  Device Care and Maintenance                |
|                     |                                                |
|                     |     1.  User Responsibilities                  |
|                     |                                                |
|                     |     2.  Prohibited Actions                     |
|                     |                                                |
|                     |     3.  Consequences of Neglect                |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+
|                     | 4.  Data Security and Privacy                  |
|                     |                                                |
|                     |     1.  User Data                              |
|                     |                                                |
|                     |     2.  Privacy Compliance                     |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+
|                     | 5.  Penalties for Policy Violations            |
|                     |                                                |
|                     |     1.  Consequences                           |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+
|                     | 6.  Appeal Process (Offer a way to appeal      |
|                     |     penalties if users believe they were       |
|                     |     unfairly penalized)                        |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+

**\*\*\* Attach the commented or checked Organizational Policy draft**

**Grading Rubric**

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Criteria**   **Exemplary (10     **Proficient (7    **Developing (4    **Incomplete
                 pts)**              points)**          points)**          (2 points)**
  -------------- ------------------- ------------------ ------------------ --------------
  Purpose and    Clearly defines the Defines the        Partially defines  Missing or
  Scope          policy's purpose    purpose and scope  the purpose and    fails to
                 and scope, fully    with minor         scope, with vague  address
                 aligning with       misalignments to   or limited         purpose and
                 TechLease's mission TechLease's        connection to      scope.
                 and goals.          mission or goals.  TechLease's        
                                                        mission or goals.  

  General Usage  Provides detailed   Lists general      Mentions permitted Missing or
  Guidelines     permitted and       permitted and      and prohibited     lacks clear
                 prohibited uses,    prohibited uses    uses but lacks     usage
                 aligned with        but lacks specific depth or relevance guidelines.
                 educational and     examples or full   to TechLease's     
                 acceptable use      alignment with     mission.           
                 standards for       TechLease's                           
                 TechLease devices.  educational focus.                    

  Device Care    Clearly outlines    Outlines basic     Lists some         Missing or
  and            user                responsibilities   responsibilities   unclear
  Maintenance    responsibilities,   and prohibited     or consequences    expectations
                 prohibited actions, actions but lacks  but lacks          for device
                 and consequences    some detail or     thoroughness and   care.
                 for device misuse,  specificity.       clarity.           
                 with specific and                                         
                 practical guidance.                                       

  Data Security  Provides thorough   Includes basic     Mentions data      Missing or
  and Privacy    guidelines on data  information on     security or        lacks
                 security, privacy,  data security and  privacy, but       information on
                 and TechLease's     privacy but lacks  guidelines are     data security.
                 compliance with     comprehensive      incomplete or      
                 laws, emphasizing   guidelines.        vague.             
                 user data                                                 
                 responsibility.                                           

  Penalties for  Clearly specifies   Lists general      Mentions penalties Missing or
  Policy         consequences for    penalties but      for violations but lacks
  Violations     violations and      lacks an appeal    lacks detail or    penalties for
                 outlines an appeal  process or         clarity on the     violations.
                 process, with       detailed           appeals process.   
                 penalties that      consequence                           
                 align with the      guidelines.                           
                 severity of misuse.                                       

  Appeal Process Provides a clear,   Includes a basic   Mentions an appeal Missing or
                 fair, and           appeal process but process but lacks  lacks an
                 accessible appeal   lacks some detail  clarity or         appeal
                 process for users   or fairness        specific steps.    process.
                 to contest          considerations.                       
                 penalties, with                                           
                 well-defined steps                                        
                 for submitting                                            
                 appeals.                                                  

  **Score:**     /60                                                       
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 1. **Purpose and Scope**

The TechLease Acceptable Use Policy is the set of rules and guidelines
to be followed for responsible use of technology provided by TechLease.
Dedicated to offering accessible, reliable, and high-quality technology
solutions, our mission is to empower students and educators by providing
affordable devices that enhance their academic success. This policy
ensures that all users employ responsible and ethical practices in using
rented devices and accessories in promoting a secure, productive, and
educational environment.

**Scope:**\
The renting devices, accessories, or other technologies from TechLease
are subject to the policy and include students, teachers, school
administrators, and other users who are given access or use their
services.

#### **2.** **General Usage Guidelines**

##### 2.1 **Permitted Uses**

TechLease devices and accessories are intended for educational purposes
and activities. The following uses are permitted:

-   **Educational Use:** Devices may be used to access learning
    materials, conduct research, complete assignments, and collaborate
    on academic projects.

-   **Communication:** Devices can be used to communicate with
    educators, peers, and academic groups through approved platforms
    (e.g., email, educational apps).

-   **Academic Support:** Devices may be used for additional learning
    tools, such as online tutoring, practice exercises, or educational
    games that aid academic growth.

-   **Limited Personal Use:** Personal use is permitted as long as it
    does not interfere with the educational purpose or violate other
    parts of this policy.

##### 2.2 **Prohibited Uses**

The following activities are prohibited when using TechLease devices and
services:

-   **Illegal Activities:** Engaging in illegal activities such as
    accessing pirated content, hacking, or distributing malware.

-   **Inappropriate Content:** Accessing or distributing explicit,
    offensive, or discriminatory material, including pornography, hate
    speech, and harmful content.

-   **Non-Educational Use:** Using the devices for non-academic purposes
    such as excessive gaming, personal business, or entertainment not
    related to educational activities.

-   **Device Misuse:** Modifying or tampering with the devices' software
    or hardware, including installing unauthorized applications,
    attempting to bypass security protocols, or altering configurations.

-   **Disruption of Services:** Using the devices or network in a manner
    that disrupts or degrades the service for others (e.g., launching
    denial-of-service attacks, spreading viruses).

#### **3.** **Device Care and Maintenance**

##### 3.1 **User Responsibilities**

Users must handle TechLease devices with care and take the following
steps to maintain the devices in good working condition:

-   **Physical Care:** Keep devices free from physical damage by
    avoiding exposure to extreme conditions (e.g., moisture, high heat,
    direct sunlight). Use protective covers or cases when necessary.

-   **Software and Security:** Ensure that devices are regularly updated
    with the latest software updates and security patches provided by
    TechLease. Do not install unauthorized software or apps.

-   **Proper Charging:** Users should ensure devices are charged and
    ready for use and return devices with sufficient battery life when
    applicable.

##### 3.2 **Prohibited Actions**

Users must avoid the following actions to prevent damage or misuse of
the devices:

-   **Physical Damage:** Avoid dropping, spilling liquids, or exposing
    devices to harsh environments.

-   **Tampering with Device Settings:** Do not alter device
    configurations, bypass security measures, or install unauthorized
    software or applications that could harm the device or compromise
    its functionality.

-   **Unauthorized Repair:** Users should not attempt to repair or
    modify devices themselves. All technical issues should be reported
    to TechLease for proper handling.

##### 3.3 **Consequences of Neglect**

Failure to maintain the device properly or misuse of the device will
result in penalties, including but not limited to:

-   **Repair Fees:** Users may be charged for repairs or replacement
    costs due to device damage caused by negligence.

-   **Suspension of Device Access:** Repeated or severe misuse may
    result in temporary or permanent suspension of rental privileges.

-   **Financial Penalties:** In cases of excessive damage or loss, users
    may be required to pay full replacement costs for devices.

#### **4.** **Data Security and Privacy**

##### 4.1 **User Data**

TechLease is committed to protecting user privacy and maintaining the
security of personal and academic data. Users are expected to:

-   **Protect Login Information:** Users should not share their login
    credentials or personal information with others.

-   **Use Secure Networks:** Devices should be used on trusted and
    secure networks to avoid data breaches.

-   **Data Storage:** Users should avoid storing personal or sensitive
    data on rented devices unless required for academic use.

##### 4.2 **Privacy Compliance**

TechLease adheres to all relevant privacy laws, including the **Data
Privacy Act of 2012** in the Philippines. We are committed to protecting
the privacy of our users by ensuring:

-   **No Unauthorized Sharing:** Personal data, including academic or
    financial information, will not be shared with third parties without
    the user\'s consent, except as required by law.

-   **Confidentiality:** TechLease will implement safeguards to ensure
    the confidentiality and security of all data accessed or processed
    through rented devices.

#### **5.** **Penalties for Policy Violations**

##### 5.1 **Consequences**

Violations of this Acceptable Use Policy may lead to penalties that vary
depending on the severity of the infraction:

-   **Warnings:** Minor infractions may result in a written warning.

-   **Suspension of Service:** Users who repeatedly violate the AUP may
    face temporary or permanent suspension of their rental privileges.

-   **Fines and Restitution:** Users may be held financially accountable
    for damages or losses resulting from misuse or neglect of rented
    devices.

-   **Legal Action:** In cases of illegal activities, TechLease reserves
    the right to report the incident to appropriate authorities, which
    could lead to legal action.

**5.2 Late Return Penalty**

A late fee of â±500 per week will be charged for each week the device is
returned past the due date. For example, a 2-week late return will incur
a â±1,000 fee.

**5.3** **Damage or Loss of Device**

Customers are responsible for any damage, loss, or theft of rented
devices. Fees range from â±1,000 - â±5,000 for damage and â±10,000 -
â±50,000 for full replacement costs in cases of severe damage or loss.

**5.4** **Failure to Remove Personal Data**

Before returning a device, customers must delete all personal files and
log out of accounts. Failure to do so will result in a cleaning fee of
â±1,000 - â±3,000.

#### **6. Appeal Process**

Users who believe that they have been unfairly penalized may file an
appeal through the following process:

1.  **Submit a Written Appeal:** Users must submit a written appeal
    within 10 business days of receiving a penalty. The appeal should
    include a detailed explanation of why the penalty should be
    reconsidered.

2.  **Review of Appeal:** A TechLease representative will review the
    appeal and the circumstances surrounding the violation. This review
    will be conducted within 5 business days of receiving the appeal.

3.  **Decision:** After reviewing the appeal, the user will be informed
    of the final decision. If the appeal is accepted, the penalty will
    be adjusted or removed. If the appeal is denied, the original
    penalty will stand.

**POLICIES:**

1\. The rental period of each technology device is one month. If the
technology device is not returned on or before the end, an additional
late fee is applied. For every week that exceeds the rental period, a
late fee of â±500 per week is applied. For example, if a student rents a
laptop for 1 month but returns it 2 weeks late from the date, there
would be a late fee of â±1,000 because those extra weeks cost â±500 a
week. If an educator rents a tablet for 1 month but returns it 3 weeks
late, he or she would be charged an extra â±1,500 because there is an
additional fee of â±500 per week for 3 weeks.

2\. All rented devices must be well cared for by the clients and
maintained in good condition and only utilized for educational purposes.
Damaged, lost, or stolen device costs additional fees. Cuts or dents,
minor damages will be charged â±1,000 - â±3,000 while moderate damage
which is screen broken or other hardware malfunction, fees range from
â±3,000 - â±5,000. In cases wherein the damage is not recoverable, for
example in cases of water damages or unrecoverable damage, replacement
cost is justified in order to pay for it; depending on the device it
ranges between â±10,000 to â±50,000. In case that a lost or stolen phone
occurred, the customer will be shouldered the full replacement cost.
However, if preventive measures like using protective case and
preventing the devices to come close to liquids as well as being exposed
to extreme conditions were done, customers won\'t have to suffer those
additional charges. All damages must be reported immediately to
TechLease so as not to exacerbate any problem. Any damage, loss, or
theft will be returned and paid by the customer for any repairs or
replacements during their lease period.

3\. Customers are allowed to rent a maximum of three devices at a time.
This policy is in place to ensure that all customers have access to the
technology they need, while maintaining fair availability of devices
across our rental pool. If a customer wishes to rent additional devices,
they must return one or more of their current rentals before renting new
ones.

4\. Downloading and installing applications that may harm the rented
technology, such as those that contain malware, corrupt files, or
harmful viruses, is strictly prohibited. Customers should only install
apps that are necessary for academic use and must ensure that these
applications come from trusted sources, such as official app stores
(Google Play Store, Apple App Store, or approved educational platforms).
Unauthorized or third-party apps that may compromise device security,
such as file-sharing programs, unverified game downloads, or apps that
interfere with the device's functionality, are not allowed. TechLease
recommends using only essential, educational apps to ensure the safety
and proper functioning of the rented devices.

5\. Before returning any rented devices, customers are required to
delete all personal files, including documents, images, PowerPoint
presentations, videos, and any other stored data. Additionally, all
social media accounts and personal profiles must be logged out, and no
personal credentials (such as social media accounts or email login
information) should be saved on the device. Customers must ensure that
all downloaded files, applications, and browser history are completely
removed to protect their privacy and security. Failure to follow these
guidelines may result in an additional cleaning fee of â±1,000 to â±3,000,
depending on the extent of the data removal required, or other penalties
as deemed necessary by TechLease.
